WP2 (April 2016 - August 2016): Hosting of all Archives in Embassy

Status: 50%

August 2016. 50%
- Luke to investigate why some images don't boot on Embassy
- Steve is trasferring ensembldb (public mirrors back to 24) to EBI warehouse space. Can be used to load archive db servers. Can taka a while
- Dan S awaits problems with 82 boot solved
- Alessandro's expanding MSQL DB servers storage via LVM, pb with resizing with >16TB

Shutdown: not really affected, does not involve anything with the suicidal blades apart from the web db servers which have to be migrated to EBI

Actions: enquire about resizing, enquiry about possible consequences of shutdown from this perspective, enquire about new deadline

1. Expand storage of MySQL servers for all archive archives and copy data from Sanger using  using new Globus endpoints
Status: 60%

August 2016. 60%
BIG PROBLEM adding more space. Old kernel (3.13.0) on ext4 does not support resizing to >16TB. LVM LV has been extended to ~20TB but resizefs complains it's big.
Added extra 10TB of storage to the MySQL server.
Allocated 80TB on Embassy vCloud enough to accomodate 15 versions + exceptions (GRCh37)

Actions: plan for an alternative resizing solution

July 2016. 40%
No globus endpoint. Transfer is occuring from Sanger farm directly into Embassy vCloud using ovftool with OVA images. Glitches with ovftool solved by Luke by installing a particular ovftool version.

Pb: some images (e.g. web-82?) don't boot on Embassy vCloud. Luke's to investigate.
fdisk the new disk partition (for LVM to recognise the new PV) allocates only 2GB

Actions: enquire Luke

2. Migrate all running VM archives from WTSI to Embassy
Status: 10%

Awaiting bottleneck with boot problem is solved.

July 2016. 10% 
Initial transfering of some notable instances: 54 (Lucene?), 67 (NCBI36) after tested on 82

3. Migrate remaining Solr and Lucene search VMs to Embassy
Status: 10%

Awaiting bottleneck with boot problem is solved.

July 2016. 10%
Solr and Lucene instances available for the archives as of 2.

4. Consultations about Exalead licensing have not been fruitful
Need to decide whether to migrate Exalead, upgrade NCBI36 to a later schema version and use Solr, or use Unisearch.
Status: 0%

Description: don't know about it, enquire.

Actions: what's this all about?

5. Develop procedures for changing front end load-balancer configuration (for example redirects of old archives)
Most of this will be done by ourselves but will need involvement of Sanger (and subsequently) EBI for the latest archive for the permalink

Status: 1%

Dan S has done some work with the current partial configuration.

Actions: equire

6. Transfer existing web stats from Sanger Piwik into EBI solution. 
Possible options are:
Direct transfer of stats into EBI
Hosting an archive piwik server so we can continue to access the data

Status: 0%?

don't know nothing about

Actions: enquire

7. Redirect DNS to EBI archive servers
Status: 0%

will be done when confident about Embassy vApp behaviour

8. Set up an SOP to create and host a new archive at EBI
Status: 0%

too early, need development on the vApp to have the necessary infrastructure in place
